In this lecture, we are going to work on the page header block.
Currently, I'm viewing the page for a category.
At the top of the page we have a gray bar stretching from side to side.
The name of the category gets rendered on the page.
At the moment, the same category gets rendered.
We should modify this section to dynamically display the current category.
As you can imagine, we must use server side rendering to accomplish this behavior.
However, there will be a twist.
I think the page header can be applicable to various pages.
Let's give clients the option of modifying the text.
If they want to display a category, we will add an option to enable this behavior.
Let's get started.
As usual, we need to create the files for the block.
After doing so, the block can be registered.
Switch over to the editor.
Inside the source slash block's directory.
Create a folder called page header.
So far we've created two blocks.
Hopefully you have a good understanding of how to start a block to prevent the course from becoming
repetitive.
I'm going to start providing starter files for our blocks.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to the starter files for the page header
block.
Here is what I want you to do.
I want you to create the files listed on this page.
They should be added to the page header folder.
There is a total of three files called block JSON, indexed JS and main CSS along with each file.
Grab the code for the file.
I want you to pause the video and give it a try.
I'm going to do the same as well.
Good luck.
Welcome back.
I have successfully created the files for our block.
Hopefully you were able to do the same.
Let's quickly review the files.
Starting with the block file.
We have a typical configuration object.
The name of the block is called Udemy Plus Page Header.
There's nothing else worth saying.
Let's switch over to the index JS file.
Inside this file we are registering the block with the register block type function.
The name has been grabbed from the block file.
Inside the object we are adding the custom icon and edit function.
The return value from the function is a fragment element with a div tag.
On the div tag we are spreading the block props object.
In a future lecture we are going to add options in the sidebar, hence why the fragment element has
been added.
That wraps up the files.
It's nothing you haven't seen before.
Let's move on to registering the block with PHP inside the includes folder.
Open the register blocks file.
The locks variable should be updated with the new block.
Lets add an array with an item called name.
Our new block will be called page header.
Next, we are going to add the options items to the array.
As mentioned earlier, our block is going to be rendered on the server.
Therefore, we must provide the function's name responsible for rendering the block inside this array
and the render callback option.
The function will be called up.
Page header render CB.
After adding this array, our block has been registered.
The final step is to define this function and prevent an error from being thrown inside the block's
directory.
Create a file called page header PHP.
Inside this file.
Define the up page header render.
CV function.
Lastly, we should include this file from the main plugin file.
Open the indexed php file.
Under the include section call the include function with the following path includes slash blocks slash
page header php.
Great.
We should generate the block files before testing our code in the command line.
If you have the server running.
Turn it off.
We are going to restart the command with the NPM run start command.
After the files have been compiled.
Let's check out the experimental page in the Gutenberg editor.
You may need to refresh the page for the locks to appear once the editor loads.
Try searching for the page header block.
It should appear on the list of blocks with our icon.
After you've found the block, add it to the page.
The block has been successfully added to the page.
Creating a block can take time by using the correct tools and configuring our editors.
This process can be expedited in previous lectures, creating a block took way longer.
However, we're now able to create blocks within minutes thanks to great preparation.
Let's start developing our block in the next set of lectures.